docs: added vmanomaly CR doc (#1423)
VictoriaMetrics/operator: docs/resources/vmanomaly.md

---
weight: 22
title: VMAnomaly
menu:
  docs:
    identifier: operator-cr-vmanomaly
    parent: operator-cr
    weight: 22
aliases:
  - /operator/resources/vmanomaly/
  - /operator/resources/vmanomaly/index.html
tags:
  - kubernetes
  - metrics
  - logs
---
`VMAnomaly` - represents [VictoriaMetrics Anomaly Detection](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/anomaly-detection/) configuration.

The `VMAnomaly` CRD declaratively defines a desired Anomaly Detection setup to run in a Kubernetes cluster.

> It provides options to configure sharding, replication, persistent storage.

Author: added links

tags:
  - kubernetes
  - metrics
  - logs
  - anomaly
---
`VMAnomaly` - represents [VictoriaMetrics Anomaly Detection](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/anomaly-detection/) configuration.

The `VMAnomaly` CRD declaratively defines a desired Anomaly Detection setup to run in a Kubernetes cluster.
It provides options to configure sharding, replication, persistent storage.

For each shard of `VMAnomaly` resource, the Operator deploys a properly configured `StatefulSet` in the same namespace.
Anomaly Detection pods can either manage configuration `Secret` creating it from `spec.configRawYaml` value or use existing one when `spec.configSecret` is defined.

## Configuration

The operator generates a configuration file for `VMAnomaly` based on user input at the definition of `CRD`.

Generated config stored at `Secret` created by the operator, it has the following name template `config-vmanomaly-CRD_NAME`.

This configuration file is mounted at `VMAnomaly` `Pod`.

**VMAnomaly is enterprise only, license is required for this CRD**. [Trial license can be requested](https://victoriametrics.com/products/enterprise/trial/) for `VMAnomaly` CRD evaluation.

> In contrast to Anomaly Detection configuration, `VMAnomaly` CRD requires to define [`reader`](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/anomaly-detection/components/reader/), [`writer`](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/anomaly-detection/components/writer/) and [`monitoring`](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/anomaly-detection/components/monitoring/) sections in raw configuration (except `reader.queries`, which should be defined at `spec.configRawYaml` or `spec.configSecret`). `reader`, `writer` and `monitoring` have dedicated sections in `VMAnomaly` CRD:

Author: initially idea was to do in the same manner how it's done in vmalertmanager, but vmanomaly config structure cannot be straightforwardly ported to operator CR

> In contrast to Anomaly Detection configuration, `VMAnomaly` CRD requires to define [`reader`](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/anomaly-detection/components/reader/), [`writer`](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/anomaly-detection/components/writer/) and [`monitoring`](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/anomaly-detection/components/monitoring/) sections in raw configuration (except `reader.queries`, which should be defined at `spec.configRawYaml` or `spec.configSecret`). `reader`, `writer` and `monitoring` have dedicated sections in `VMAnomaly` CRD:

Reviewer: Are there plans to improve it in the next version?

`Secret` selector must be defined at `VMAnomaly` `spec.configSecret` option:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: anomaly-config
  labels:
    app: vm-operator
type: Opaque
stringData:
  config.yaml: |
    reader:
      queries:
        ingestion_rate:
          expr: 'sum(rate(vm_rows_inserted_total[5m])) by (type) > 0'
          step: '1m'
    schedulers:
      scheduler_periodic_1m:
        class: "periodic"
        # class: "periodic" # or class: "scheduler.periodic.PeriodicScheduler" until v1.13.0 with class alias support)
        infer_every: "1m"
        fit_every: "2m"
        fit_window: "3h"
    models:
      model_univariate_1:
        class: 'zscore'
        z_threshold: 2.5

---

apiVersion: operator.victoriametrics.com/v1
kind: VMAnomaly
metadata:
  name: example
spec:
  replicaCount: 2
  license:
    key: "xx"
  reader:
    datasourceURL: http://vmsingle-read-example:8428
    samplingPeriod: 10s
  writer:
    datasourceURL: http://vmsingle-write-example:8428
  configSecret:
    name: anomaly-config
    key: config.yaml
```

### Using inline raw config

> Also, if there is no secret data at configuration, or you just want to redefine some global variables for `anomaly`.

Author: repharesed it

          memory: 128Mi
          cpu: 500m
    # ...
```

If these parameters are not specified, then,
by default all `VMAnomaly` pods have resource requests and limits from the default values of the following [operator parameters](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/operator/configuration):

- `VM_VMANOMALY_RESOURCE_LIMIT_MEM` - default memory limit for `VMAnomaly` pods,
- `VM_VMANOMALY_RESOURCE_LIMIT_CPU` - default memory limit for `VMAnomaly` pods,
- `VM_VMANOMALY_RESOURCE_REQUEST_MEM` - default memory limit for `VMAnomaly` pods,
- `VM_VMANOMALY_RESOURCE_REQUEST_CPU` - default memory limit for `VMAnomaly` pods.

These default parameters will be used if:

- `VM_VMANOMALY_USEDEFAULTRESOURCES` is set to `true` (default value),
- `VMAnomaly` CR doesn't have `resources` field in `spec` section.

Field `resources` in `VMAnomaly` spec have higher priority than operator parameters.

If you set `VM_VMANOMALY_USEDEFAULTRESOURCES` to `false` and don't specify `resources` in `VMAnomaly` CRD,
then `VMAnomaly` pods will be created without resource requests and limits.

Also, you can specify requests without limits - in this case default values for limits will not be used.

## Examples

> ```yaml

Reviewer: Add a short explanation of what this example is about

    weight: 22
aliases:
  - /operator/resources/vmanomaly/
  - /operator/resources/vmanomaly/index.html
tags:
  - kubernetes
  - metrics
  - logs
  - anomaly
---
`VMAnomaly` - represents [VictoriaMetrics Anomaly Detection](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/anomaly-detection/) configuration {{% available_from "v0.60.0" "operator"%}}.

The `VMAnomaly` CRD declaratively defines a desired Anomaly Detection setup to run in a Kubernetes cluster.
It provides options to configure [sharding](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/anomaly-detection/scaling-vmanomaly/#horizontal-scalability), [replication](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/anomaly-detection/scaling-vmanomaly/#high-availability), persistent storage.

For each shard of `VMAnomaly` resource, the Operator deploys a properly configured `StatefulSet` in the same namespace.
Anomaly Detection pods can either use a configuration Secret created from the value specified in `spec.configRawYaml`, or use an existing secret specified in `spec.configSecret`.

## Configuration

The operator generates a configuration file for `VMAnomaly` based on user input at the definition of [CRD](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/operator/api/#vmanomaly).

> Generated config stored at `Secret` created by the operator, it has the following name template `config-vmanomaly-CRD_NAME`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The generated configuration is stored in a Secret created by the operator, using the following naming template: config-vmanomaly-<CRD_NAME>
```
